% Notes
<!-- generated by './build' -->
* [It doesn't matter what qualifies as art](#it-doesnt-matter-what-qualifies-as-art)
* [Why do beliefs matter?](#why-beliefs-matter)
* [Own you sh*t](#own-your-sh-t)
* [Causality doesn't exist](#causality-doesnt-exist)

### <a name="it-doesnt-matter-what-qualifies-as-art"></a>It doesn't matter what qualifies as art


It doesn't matter what qualifies as art. "art" isn't an absolute or
necessary concept, it's a label that may or may not make sense in a
given context. When a label stops making sense, obsessing over it is
madness.



_Martin Jambon, [September 04, 2022](it-doesnt-matter-what-qualifies-as-art)_

### <a name="why-beliefs-matter"></a>Why do beliefs matter?


In my model of mind, beliefs are explicit (conscious) parts of the
world model that a mind maintains. They can be communicated or revised
as necessary and in that sense, they're no different from notes on
paper. So why do they matter? They're used like notes or any other
symbols that were planted in the environment as reminders of some
concepts. I view this "symbol planting" as a way to (re)populate the
imagination on demand. It could be your own imagination or the
imagination of others. It bypasses original sensing. For example, the
written description of a banana can substitute itself to the sight of
an actual banana. I see beliefs as imagination primers, and
imagination sets the context for (intuitive) decision making. That's
why it's important that beliefs or their communicated form be
sufficiently correct for the application at hand.



_Martin Jambon, [September 03, 2022](why-beliefs-matter)_

### <a name="own-your-sh-t"></a>Own you sh*t


Own your sh*t. It's called sh*t for a reason. It's your legacy and
it's not perfect. It never is.

Justification:

Society emerges from the recognition of individuals. An individual is
located in space and time. More than this, it is tied to a sphere of
influence. We assigne causes to events and we stop in the chain when
hitting a decision center - the mind of an individual. For example, a
recognized causality chain would be:

global warming<br>
⇑ [caused by]<br>
excessive CO$_2$ emissions<br>
⇑ [caused by]<br>
bad governance of world countries<br>
⇑ [caused by]<br>
leaders of world countries<br>
⇑ elections ???<br>
citizens

It's generally the leaders of the countries that are held responsible, not the
citizens that put them in power.

Individual members of society are considered responsible for their
actions, or they're not members of society. This is how various
societies have emerged throughout history. sometimes, some individuals
are considered less responsible than others but nonetheless, it's hard
to find cases where someone else is held responsible instead. Examples
of classes of people that have been historically considered less
responsible include:
* slaves
* minors
* women
* ethnic groups, casts
* unintelligent people

While there's no scientific reason why the world must be comprised of
one or more societies, it is the framework within which humans
operate. It follows from the emergence of individuals minds although
it's not necessary. Many animals arguably have minds but are not
meaningfully organized as societies. Even a human, when stranded alone
on a desert island, ceases to function within a society. Another
class of scenarios with unclear consequences involve hive minds. A
hive mind a spatially distributed, which may temporarily be split into
individual minds due to communication network failures but eventually
reconnects. It is what humans might turn into if they became
telepathically connected, possibly using brain implants and wireless
communication networks. We don't have historical evidence of actual
hive minds to have a clear sense of how responsibility and justice
would be implemented in such societies, if we may still call them
societies. We could speculate that hive minds tend to not be
competitive in the world and die out precisely due to the lack of blame
assignment to their individual constituents, as well as the lack of
competition between multiple hive minds if they keep merging into
bigger hive minds on first contact. This is to say that a hive mind
may not be evolutionary competitive unless it implements some
mechanism that guarantees its evolution and survival in changing
environment. This is a concern when one considers that the major
contributor to the evolution of intelligence in humans may have been
intraspecific conflict, i.e. war. Modern communication technology may
be bringing humans closer to functioning as a hive mind. However, we
still operate as a society with well-defined individuals, and we have
laws and traditions based on that. Historically, efforts to assign or
deassign responsibility from actual decision centers - the individual
minds - have failed massively. See for example dictatorships or
attempts to create pure collectivist societies where everyone is
equally deserving regardless of they do.



_Martin Jambon, [August 17, 2022](own-your-sh-t)_

### <a name="causality-doesnt-exist"></a>Causality doesn't exist


Causality doesn't exist in the scientific sense. While it's present in
many useful models, it is always possible to extend the model without
respecting the causality relationships.

Causality is usually of this form:
* two categories of events are recognized.
* An event is a state of the system at a point in time.
* The events occur within a time (range) from one another with some
  statistical correlation.
* The event occurring first is said to cause the event that occurs
  earlier.


_Martin Jambon, [July 15, 2022](causality-doesnt-exist)_
