When I commented earlier that "we are now looking for Bigfoot", I
meant to criticize scientific research aimed at finding evidence for
widespread beliefs. Scientific discoveries in general are
counter-intuitive and are driven by a handful of specialists with
better knowledge than the general population; hypotheses that are
correctly formed by scientists are not what the general public
believes in, whatever that is.

While I acknowledge that promising to do research on naive beliefs has
been on occasions a good way of obtaining funding and getting useful
research done (alchemy, astrology, search for extra-terrestrial
intelligence, ...), I do not want to spend time debunking faith-driven
science, however serious and honest it is.

My personal experience as a post-doc studying the structure of
proteins is the following: the boss had the strong impression that the
3D structure of bacterial proteins was more compact, less irregular
and fuzzy than their homologs found in eukaryotes. That was the
belief. I looked at a lot of structures and couldn't see anything,
other than known results about the eukaryotic sequences having longer
inserts than their bacterial homologs. I looked at a number of metrics
that would show differences in the compactness of those proteins but
no difference was found between eukaryotes and bacteria. However,
using those tools, I found strong differences between high-quality
structures determined by X-ray crystallography and low-quality
structures obtained by X-ray crystallography. Another technique for
determining 3D structures of proteins, NMR, however did not come with
a way of knowing the "resolution" of the structure as it was the case
for crystallography. Well, it turned out that the metric I came up
with while trying to measure how loose a protein structure was, simply
showed that NMR structures were very loose, just like the set X-ray
structures of low resolution that were considered unreliable. In a set
of 50% of X-ray structures and 50% of NMR structures, our new metric
would guess correctly in 90% of the cases which technique was used to
determine the 3D structure of the protein - just by a geometric
analysis on the positions of the atoms.

Unfortunately, the friendly lab next door was focused on NMR analysis
and structure determination of proteins. The results I had obtained
were highly inconvenient, as they demonstrated both that (1) the
initial belief on difference between bacteria and eukaryotes was
unfounded and (2) that their experimental technique to determine 3D
structures in the first place was greatly limited. My boss delayed the
paper forever; I eventually left the lab and ended up in the software
industry.

In the end, I would recommend against trying to find evidence for
other people's beliefs, however numerous, powerful, nice, serious or
respected these people are.
